Mithril update 2026-07-08 (#804)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2026-07-08-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2026-07-08-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

This week, the Mithril team completed the refactoring of the unsafe SNARK setup, the refactoring of the preparation of the prover input for the recursive SNARK aggregation primitives, the decoupling of the Midnight library in the SNARK recursive circuit, and the test ensuring the degree of the SNARK circuits remains unchanged. They continued work on enhancing the modularity of the SNARK recursive circuit with gadgets.

The team also worked on the enhancement of the aggregator state machine to support the `Blocked` state and the capture of the end-to-end execution logs in artifacts.

> Finally, they continued work on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, the release of the `2628` distribution, the upgrade to Cardano `11.1`, the update of the DMQ node to `0.7.0.0`, and the upgrade of the midnight-zk library to `2.3.3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team refactored the unsafe SNARK setup, prepared the prover input for the recursive SNARK aggregation primitives, decoupled the Midnight library in the SNARK recursive circuit, and tested that the degree of the SNARK circuits remains unchanged. They continued improving the modularity of the SNARK recursive circuit using gadgets.

The team also worked on enhancing the aggregator state machine to support the `Blocked` state and on capturing end-to-end execution logs in artifacts.

Finally, they continued work on shipping the Mithril signer node binary in the Cardano node bundle, releasing the `2628` distribution, upgrading the Cardano node to `11.1`, updating the DMQ node to `0.7.0.0`, and upgrading the `midnight-zk` library to `2.3.3`.
```
